---
layout: post
title: Applied Microeconomics 
excerpt: "This is a modified version of the report for Applied Microeconomics in Bath Full Time MBA Class of 2020."
categories: Business Finance
tags: [ Business Finance]
comments: true
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

This is a modified version of the report for Applied Microeconomics in Bath Full Time MBA Class of 2020.

# Applied Microeconomics

## Introduction
Once the start-ups were hard to build financial services such as payment.  This primary was because the bank used to spend 75% of their IT budget to maintain their financial service <cite>(Strange, 2019)</cite>.  However, Amazon Web Services (AWS) has changed this situation due to providing them IT infrastructure as a service and therefore, they can start the financial service business with quite cheaper than ever (ibid).  Although the banking business is supplied as a service owing to AWS and other cloud computing providers, it is not required to supply all banking functions (fraud, regulatory, data, payment, core systems and license) as a unit (ibid).  Although now there are a great deal of certain function banking service providers (called FinTech), this essay will focus on Stripe which is the one of the largest online (mainly mobile) payment service providers.  This is because the forecast says the global mobile payment market is rapidly growing with approximately 30% GACR (2018-2026) which means the market will be roughly 7 times larger than in 2018 <cite>(Fortune Business Insights, 2020)</cite>.  The hospitality and transportation sector are the fastest (35% GACR) and emerging economies in Asia-Pacific are growing more rapidly than any other region, the remarkable example of which is China having a half of world mobile payment transactions (PRIME INDEXES, 2019).  This is mainly due to the online payment innovation called Payment Facilitator (or ‘PayFac’) which completely shortened the merchant onboarding operation <cite>(CB Insights, 2020)</cite>.  Therefore, the mobile payment industry could be one of the attractive markets and Stripe might play the important role of the market owing to their presence in the market because it is one of the first firms to use PayFac technology (ibid).
 
## Economic Analysis of the Mobile Payment Industry
One of the main reasons why mobile payment is rising can be to remove the pain points in the customer experience of the payment process which is becoming more complex due to E-commerce and the ramification of merchant landing pages <cite>(Goldman Sachs, 2017)</cite>.  The buyers of these platforms are not only end-users (2.1 billion in the world in 2019 and potentially 60% of the world population by 2025 because of the wide spreading mobile phone) who are mainly millennials but also the businesses such as merchants <cite>(THE PAYPERS BV, 2019)</cite>.  Functionally, the major alternatives of this service are other types of payment method mainly including credit card and debit one because of which four fifth of the transaction by the millenniums delivered on these cards and they considered the payment by the ones is the easiest way (ibid).  This is because they think there are several security filters to pay by the mobile payment, which leads them to hesitate to do so (ibid).  As well as the demand side, Fintech firms including Stripe are not the only one major supplier of the mobile payment market.  The traditional players such as banks and financial institutions are also, the example of which 89% of them in the United States is offering mobile banking services <cite>(PRIME INDEXES, 2019)</cite>.  In addition, tech giants (Google and Apple) and electronics (Samsung) are doing so mobile payment apps which prefixed their own brand name, as a result of which 3 apps will dominate 56% of this market in the US according to Juniper Research (ibid).  However, Starbucks’ mobile app was the most common mobile payment platform in the US until 2019 in terms of the number of users and still is more popular than Google and Samsung Pay (Merchant Savvy, 2020).  This can be because the customers are likely to use for low-cost, high-frequency purchases including coffee in Starbucks owing to not only more smooth purchase transactions but also loyalty and rewards programs offered by certain merchants <cite>(ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ASSOCIATION, 2019)</cite>.  In addition, there are the difference of the preference about how many mobile payment apps the customers prefer to install, the major example of which East Asian countries such as China and South Korea may prefer to do so only one app, however, the other area including the United States may not hesitate to do so several apps <cite>(Merchant Savvy, 2020)</cite>.  This can allow Stripe and other mobile platformers to the more opportunities to enter this industry especially in the US, however, credit card and debit card are used in 41% and 34% of point of sales spending by value in North America in 2018 according to Worldpay’s World Payments Report <cite>(ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ASSOCIATION, 2019)</cite>.  This may mean these cards are stronger competitors rather than other mobile payment platformers as for Stripe.  This might be because the customers in the area have ‘security fears’ to use the mobile payment (ibid).  In fact, roughly a half of them pointed out the fear was the main reason to prevent using the one (ibid).  Therefore, it can be said the structure of the mobile payment market in the world (except China dominated by only two firms including Alibaba and Tencent) is closing to oligopoly which Stripe and other few competitors such as Ayden and PayPal (Braintree) from nearly perfect competition due to low entry barrier which only requires to be approved by Financial Services Authority (FSA). 
 
## Economic Analysis of Stripe
Stripe is an online API based payment platformer with the mission which is ‘increasing the global GDP of the internet’ <cite>(Jewell and Marden, 2018)</cite>.  Their platform has also well documented manuals and then has high integrity for the system of the clients (ibid).  This is primarily because they ‘believe that payments are a problem rooted in code, not finance’ and therefore, they concentrate to decrease implementation time to integrate their platform into the merchant’s web sites <cite>(Goldman Sachs, 2017)</cite>.  As a result of the concentration, the integration time is shortened from more than 6 months to only a few minutes (just added a few codes in the web sites whose user interfaces are unchanged) (ibid).  Their business model is mainly dependent on a per-transaction basis, the example of which when the client product is sold via their payment system, they can earn some portion of the price and therefore as the revenue of the client is increased, their revenue is also raised (ibid).  In fact, in general, they impose a fixed rate of 2.9% + 30 cents per transaction, however, the fee is changed by the volume of transactions and the geographic location which the merchants are in <cite>(Murray, 2019)</cite>.  In the UK, the fee per transaction also depends on the cards which the customers use in the merchants, the example of which they are imposed at 1.4% + 20p for a European card or 2.9% +20 p for a non-European card (ibid).  This means the merchants can deliver the international purchase transactions only with slightly higher fee (for example 1.5% additionally charged in the UK) at least within Europe.  Stripe focuses on only businesses, especially small- and medium-sized ones, which is the major difference of PayPal and therefore their revenue is estimated at $450 million as a result of a $20 billion transaction by value in 2015 (ibid).  In addition, as a result of counting on their direct sales model (marketing cost such as CAC can be quite low) and low infrastructure cost (AWS and it do only charge for the amount of actual usage which means almost zero fixed costs to operate the platform presumably only except employee salary and rent fee), the profit margin is estimated around 55 %, which is better than industrial average (around 20%) (CB Insights, 2020). Hence the cost structure of Stripe can be said to be relatively competitive in this industry.  Furthermore, Stripe is a relatively software developer oriented firm, one of the main reasons for which it has the community of them and therefore the capability of integration for other services is stronger than the competitors because they prefer to work in Stripe rather than other firms <cite>(Benson, 2018)</cite>.  This can be because they prefer to introduce their payment platform into new technology such as AI.  For instance, a new product (called Radar) can detect fraud transactions in the purchase processing to monitor in real time and score them based on the historical data trend and therefore as the tool has more data, the accuracy of the capability to detect potentially fraudulent transactions can increase, which may mean it has the strong sales and operating synergy for the payment platform <cite>(CB Insights, 2020)</cite>.  One of the largest benefits to using their online payment platform can be increasing client firm’s revenue.  In fact, the conversion rate of some clients increased by 2-3% due to smoother payment process (or faster processing time) by their platform, which means it also increased the satisfaction of client’s customer purchase experience and therefore on average they could increase by 7% of client firm revenue <cite>(Jewell and Marden, 2018)</cite>.  Another major benefit can be that their payment platform can reduce the operational cost of the clients.  This is because the cost of development and maintenance for the payment platform is 24% cheaper than competitor’s average (ibid).  Hence from the economic perspective, it can be said that the opportunity cost of the usage of moderate payment platforms is higher than Stripe payment platform and therefore, they have a competitive advantage not only for building payment systems from the scratch but also average competitors.  In addition, it also has the function to prevent the fraud of purchase transactions (ibid).  According to LexisNexis (a legal firm), generally, every $1 of fraudulent purchase transactions charges an online trade an additional $2.62 (ibid).  Therefore, it can be said their payment system can reduce the costs of the clients to prevent fraud.  Furthermore, on general, mobile payment can be more secure than other type of payment method due to tokenized transaction which means the card number cannot be seen at the point of sales and encrypting the sales information immediately after the customers purchase <cite>(ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ASSOCIATION, 2019)</cite>.  Hence, Stripe can offer the secure purchase transaction via their mobile payment platform, which means the merchants can reduce security costs to introduce the mobile payment such as Stripe one.  Time can be a major scarce resource and therefore rapid integration into the client’s landing pages could lead Stripe to competitive advantage.  
 
## Conclusion
This essay has discussed the mobile payment industry and the key supplier (Stripe) in terms of economics.  It has several competitive advantages including the fraud prevention, lower marketing and operating costs (higher profit margin, 55% around), rapid integration without any change of the user interface of the merchant’s web pages and the strong developer’s community.  In addition, the industry is growing rapidly (more than GACR 30%), however, the number of suppliers is also rising and therefore the profitability of the firms might be decreased as a result of competitions.  Furthermore, the credit card firms such as Visa and Mastercard can be still the largest competitor in terms of payment.  This is because the client’s customers still have the fear of security for mobile payment even though technically it is more secure than a credit card.  In the future remark, whichever mobile payment system such as digital wallet (Apple Pay) or gateway (Stripe) the merchants select, they finally have to be authorized, done clearing and the settlement by card network of Visa and Mastercard which can charge the same amount of the fee Stripe can earn according to Goldman Sucks (2017).  Therefore, even if mobile payment penetrated and dominated the payment process, still the credit firms can earn profit due to the assessments.  Hence Stripe has mainly two options, first of which is becoming the authority like Visa or second of that introduces blockchain which is not required to the central clearing and authorization.

## Reference
* Benson, J., 2018. Stripe Vs Adyen [Online]. Available from: [https://www.spreedly.com/blog/stripe-vs-adyen](https://www.spreedly.com/blog/stripe-vs-adyen) [Accessed 8th June 2020].
* CB Insights, 2020. Stripe Teardown: How The $35B Payments Company Plans To Supercharge Online Retail [Online]. Available from: [https://www.cbinsights.com/research/report/stripe-teardown/](https://www.cbinsights.com/research/report/stripe-teardown/) [Accessed 8th June 2020].
* ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ASSOCIATION, 2019. THE STATE OF MOBILE PAYMENTS IN 2019
* Fortune Business Insights, 2020. Mobile Payment Market Size, Share & Industry Analysis, By Payment Type (Proximity Payment, Remote Payment), By Industry (Media & Entertainment, Retail, BFSI, Automotive, Medical & Healthcare, Transportation, Consumer Electronics, Others), and Regional Forecast, 2019-2026 [Online]. Available from: [https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/industry-reports/mobile-payment-technology-market-100336](https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/industry-reports/mobile-payment-technology-market-100336) [Accessed 8th June 2020].
* Goldman Sachs, 2017. Future of Finance Payment Ecosystems
* Merchant Savvy, 2020. Amazing Stats Demonstrating The Unstoppable Rise of Mobile Payments Globally [Online]. Available from: [https://www.merchantsavvy.co.uk/mobile-payment-stats-trends/](https://www.merchantsavvy.co.uk/mobile-payment-stats-trends/) [Accessed 8th June 2020].
* Murray, T., 2019. Stripe Product Model [Online]. Available from: [http://www.businessmodelzoo.com/exemplars/Stripe](http://www.businessmodelzoo.com/exemplars/Stripe) [Accessed 8th June 2020].
* PRIME INDEXES, 2019. Mobile Payments Industry Overview
* Strange, A., 2019. Every Company Will Be a Fintech Company [Online]. Available from: [https://a16z.com/2020/01/21/every-company-will-be-a-fintech-company/](https://a16z.com/2020/01/21/every-company-will-be-a-fintech-company/) [Accessed 8th June 2020].
* THE PAYPERS BV, 2019. Payment Methods Report 2019